# Foundation Recommendation System
### Question Statement
I know it is difficult for many girls like me who are big fans about cosmetic products to choose a suitable foundation from many similar products because we cannot try each of them out. Though there are more and more website and apps allowing us to share the reviews, it is still overwhelmed for us to read so many reviews and make our decision. So, I want to make a convenient foundation recommendation system based on the tons of reviews to save more time and energy for girls and help them to find next dream foundation at the same time. In order to tackle this big question, I break it down into two steps: I need to make sure whether the reviews can provide us with enough information about different features of foundation; if so, then how do we recommend.

### Data Overview
The data is scraped from Sephora website. This dataset includes 63 foundation brands and 217 products in total, which covers almost all the common foundations on the market. It also contains 27 other factors besides the review text, including the product information and reviewer information.

### Part 1: Text Analysis of Reviews
In this part, I explored whether the reviews can provide enough information of foundation features, is there any difference between good reviews and bad reviews. So, I used comparison word cloud to show the difference. To do so, I clean the text by tokenizing, lowercasing, removing stopwords (I customized the dictionary of stopwords in order to exclude more meaningless words) and removing numbers and punctuations. Then, I made a TermDocumentMatrix for the basis of comparison word cloud. The plot showed that good features include: they are easy to apply, stay for long time, lightweight, make the skin looks flawless, smooth and soft. However, the bad features include: they are greasy, patchy, cakey, bring acne. Instead of specific features, I also explored more general view to see what aspects reviewers are focusing on when they made comments on the foundations. So, I use LDA to do the topic modeling. I summarized from the top words of topics that reviewers usually focus on the coverage, finish, suitable skin type, shade and whether they are long-stayed.

### Part 2: Recommendation System
The general idea of this recommendation system is: I want to use the reviews of the foundations especially the term frequencies of each word as foundations’ unique “genes” to calculate the cosine similarity among different foundations. To do so, I firstly combine all the reviews into one line for each foundation, then remove stopwords and make it into DocumentTermMatrix. Next, I calculate the similarity between my target foundation and other foundation pairwise using the cosine_similarity function from sklearn based on the complete array of word frequencies of each foundation. Finally, this system will return top 5 most similar foundations to the target one.
### Conclusion
Firstly, from the comparison word cloud we can find that high rating reviews and low rating reviews together can describe different aspects of foundation products, which helps us to extract features of different foundations. Secondly, from the topic modeling we can know that customers usually focus on the coverage, finish, shade, the skin type that certain foundations suitable for, whether they are long-stay and lightweight. Lastly, it is practical to make recommendations using the cosine similarities among foundations based on the reviews of each foundation, which can save more time for customers to read reviews and make their choice conveniently.

Welcom any suggestions!!
